the green card cost right now is
$800,000 which is about 78
CR so what is the solution for them I
can help you get a collateral free loan
of up to $400,000 from us itself and
that costs about 4.95 or 5% per anom and
the deal is even for a tourist visa if
I'm not wrong just to go to the US
there's a waiting list of how long by
2026 early or mid you'll get an
appointment what is the primary reason
that these rich Indians are looking to
buy a US citizen ship if I can give you
an example when I was staying there they
put up boards all across our street
saying they'll be uh building a new road
it was 10 11 at night I was about to
sleep and I said there's no work going
on next day morning 7:00 a.m. I woke up
and there was a new so the better way is
to have quits quickly 21 years they'll
become and then they can sponsor me you
have a brilliant plan you don't need me
for any kind of consultation guys I'm
all about hacks what are some of the
mistakes or pitfalls that people usually
do due to which they get blacklisted
Visa gets rejected and they get kicked
out of the country there are a lot of
children who work outside the campus
illegally which they should not be doing
so tell me this if i' never get the
green card is it theoretically possible
to live in the US indefinitely yes and
[Music]
no hey guys welcome back to another
episode of the one person Club show I
know it's been a while so on today's
episode we have Mr deesh deshmuk who is
an expert on US immigration now with
Donald Trump coming in a lot of things
has changed about the American dream so
if you are somebody who is looking at
moving to the US for a better life or if
you're already somebody in the US
already studying already working and
you're not sure about what your future
looks like then this episode is going to
be absolutely super informational for
you so make sure you watch till the end
so Mr thees thank you so much for coming
back the second time to the 1 person
Club show my pleasure let's address the
elephant in the room what the hell is
this golden card that President Trump
has brought about I've heard about the
Dubai UAE golden card right but what is
this us golden card please educate us so
earlier there was a program called eb5
under which you could get a green card
by investing
$800,000 and you had to create 10
American jobs so almost 56c if you
invest create eight American jobs you
get a green card Green Card 10 jobs you
create and you get a green card green
card so though it's called the gold gold
card the outcome the result will be
getting a green card because that is the
card that us has but what he's doing is
he has increased the limit from $800,000
or a million do to $5 million so his
point is I don't want too many people in
the US people who are rich wealthy can
invest and get the green card and come
and live happily permanently in our
country there is a long time they can
make a decision but now everyone has
lost their sleep because even if you are
ready to put 5 million why will you put
5 million when you can get the same
thing for
$800,000 so everybody is like hurrying
up let's do this J J say before the new
rule kicks in correct correct correct
and there's a lot of people waiting in
line to invest this $800,000 to move
into the US oh you have no idea what is
that right now even for a tourist visa
if I'm not wrong just to go to the US
chill in Vegas and come back yes there's
a waiting list of how long by 2026 early
or mid you'll get an appointment so
there's almost like a 2-year waiting
list just to go to the US to enjoy and
come back just to get the visa just to
get a tourist visa yes now you're saying
this sort of a waiting list will soon
happen for the eb5 program as well
correct because people are scared that
800,000 say 5 million so I need to hurry
up correct and the reason the waight
list is US gives 10,000 eb5 green cards
per year and they give 700 Green cards
per country
so if from India they get 500 600 700
Green cards then those people will get
in one one half year the green card but
if suddenly 3,000 people file then they
will get in the queue so 700 will get in
this year 7 700 allocated per country
per country that's it that's it okay so
what is the primary reason that these
rich Indians are uh looking to buy a US
citizenship or a US green card like why
do they want to do it in the first place
the quality of life which I had even
discussed the last time with you is
something that people look at you know
because for a normal human being
everything is perfect you know when you
pay taxes there you don't feel bad the
roads are nice the bridges are nice
you're not stuck in traffic jam 99%
absolutely air is breathable so 99% of
the US is definitely uh like that and
that is the reason people would want to
move by investing so much money okay do
you know any do you have any like
friends of yours who have actually done
this who have actually gone to the US so
many a lot of people are confused about
this they said oh I love India I don't
want to give up my Indian passport but
no a green card means you have a US
green card or a resident permit on your
Indian passport so you always remain the
citizen of India and after 5 years of
getting your green card if you choose to
you can file for a citizenship and then
you can get the US Passport so if I have
the green card with me on my Indian
passport what are the powers that I get
can you just tell about the superpowers
I have so the first thing is unlike any
other Visa it does not expire or I mean
anything expires but it just gets
renewed perpetually whereas uh a a
student visa will expire uh a work
permit will either expire or if you are
fired from your job within 2 months if
you don't find another job which will
sponsor your H1B you will have to leave
the us correct so there are a lot of
issues so yes a Visa allows you to live
there study work but it does not
guarantee you a Perpetual life in the US
whereas a green card will guarantee you
a Perpetual life the name uh of the uh
Visa is permanent residency right so
permanent means it is permanent nobody
can take it away from you but does it
also give me uh access to other
countries Visa free or so Visa free yes
so a lot of countries you get you can
travel visa free if you have a US Green
Card forget a US Green Card even if you
have a US tourist visa you can go to
countries like UA Dubai and all you can
just show your us tourist Visa or of
course the green card and you can get
14-day or now even they allow a
long-term Visa okay for visa on arrival
now considering the current world's
landscape which uh the countries that a
rich person might want to go to for a
better quality of life it could be the
US UK Australia Dubai what is your topic
and why so topic whether it is mine or
anybody's right us always has been a top
top pick because if I can give you an
example yeah when I us to live in Boston
uh I remember Boston is where Harvard is
yes okay so um so it was almost 2 2:
a.m. and I was driving home and a cop
stopped me siren behind you pull over
and then I knew I was not speeding so I
asked him officer what happened and he
said you your tire touched the white
line three times either you're drunk or
you're sleepy okay if you don't look
like drunk that means you're sleepy and
I said yes officer I am sleepy he said
said pull over take a nap otherwise
you'll die and I said my house is two
exits away I just wanted to get home
then he asked me for a driver's license
he saw my address and he said yes roll
down the windows blast your radio but
don't die okay I go parked my car in my
parking lot I stepped out of my car and
the officer was behind me and he said I
just came to make sure you are reaching
safely to your home good night sir I
don't think we will ever see that day in
India my heart was
touched uh what what are the other
things that the the government does to
me to take care of me make sure there
are no potholes okay of course in fact
uh I remember when I was staying there
uh they put up boards all across our
street saying they'll be uh building a
new road so don't park it was 10 11 at
night I was about to sleep and I said
there's no work going on God knows why
they had put up these signs and all of
that next day 7: a.m. I woke up and
there was a new Street New Street and it
was just unbelievable and after 3 days
they came with uh huge machines and they
planted trees when I'm saying trees
those each tree was two or three stories
high so with a machine they just went z
z and the tree was there wow so they
don't like plant a sapling which will
hopefully grow after 20 years so I mean
these are see they're putting trees they
just put trees okay so so so these are
very small small things but it matter a
lot because here we don't get to see all
of that right okay what else right so
after that when you go to college there
is a concept called institution free fee
okay which means if you're living in a
state and in that state if you're going
to a State University and state
universities are amazing there you get
like a 70 80 or at times 90% discount
compared to what a foreign National will
pay wow so if you're undergrad in Indian
rupees you were to spend 2 to four
crores on a four-year education there
under in institution fee you'll pay
about 78 or $10,000 per anom okay so
about $35 $40,000 is in the whole year
what yeah it's no for the fouryear
education for the fouryear education so
let's talk about people who are in the
middle income group have probably 10
lakh 20 lakh of lifelong savings are
just turned 30 31 and they want to go to
the US student visa what to do God it's
going to be very difficult then because
the H1B Visa it's a lottery based Visa
right it's a work permit which allows
you to live and work in the US but that
is restricted by lottery so they have a
65,000 quota and in one year 7 no that
is for people who are already studying
in the US no I'm talking about people
who are in India they can also apply for
a job if they get a job the employer
will put put their name in the lottery
if the name gets picked in the lottery
they can work okay absolutely and these
are companies like enforces who are
sending their EMP correct no or even a
American company can hire somebody from
India they can do a Skype interview if
they really like that guy and if he has
such talent which is not available in
the US then they can file for their H1B
so an American company hiring a foreign
National whether they are living in us
on student visa or living in India
permanently it doesn't matter so what
are those companies that you've seen uh
us companies uh which uh bring a lot of
people from India to the US based on
their Lottery system so it's mostly tech
companies because that Talent is not
available see H1B is a highly skilled
Visa okay and the law says that you can
only get somebody on H1B if that Talent
is not available in America so somebody
let's say who's done a marketing major
it will be very difficult for that
person to get a H1B Visa because that
Talent is available in the US tech
mostly predominantly is not available so
hence we see more tech people getting
this Visa I'm not saying a marketing or
finance major will not get it but when
you're talking of numbers the higher
numbers are obviously Tech related H got
it got it so uh if I'm a software
engineer basically so basically I need
to be an engineering professional but I
heard also doctors are are able to get
it easily yes so doctors it's a
completely different uh route right so
for doctors uh one thing is you need to
give us M if you've studied in India if
you are going and studying in the US
it's totally a different ball game
doctors typically get a J1 Visa or H1B
which is Cap exempt so for doctors if
they're working in certain hospitals not
all but certain hospitals they can get
an H1B easily but if you've done medical
here in India or anywhere outside us
then you need to clear that State's
USMLE exam H so you're saying if you're
a medical professional wanting to come
to the US there is a special route and
there is no like Lottery system and cap
exemption it is just about your
qualification if you meet the required
qualifications you can come because
there's a bigger shortage of medical
Prof absolutely okay so the odds of
getting a us work visa is reducing more
and more so as somebody who is in India
right now and let's say I apply for a US
college and I get an admit and the fee
is $100,000 a year and my chance of
getting a work visa after 2 years of
working there is now less than 10%
correct so obviously I need to have a
plan B corre so what is Plan B for
example um I had spoken about the
teacher jobs that I spoke last time
there's a tremendous teacher shortage in
the US so if somebody chooses to become
a school teacher then they will not be
subject to a H1B Lottery provided they
are getting into certain schools so such
people I can help them get a teacher
certification done just like a doctor
will need a us mle uh exam similarly to
become a teacher you need to be a
certified teacher so I help people get
that and then they can get an H1B
without the lottery so this is one
example so we can create we can come up
with Solutions where depending on what
he has studied read what education they
have we can suggest how to uh still
remain in the US without getting thrown
out so right now how many nris are there
in India right now because from what I
know is about 1% of someone of American
population is NIS easily possible so
that is about 30 lakh people okay let us
say uh half of them already have the
citizenship half of them don't so about
10 15 lakh people in the US who are
Indians looking to get a green card now
the green card cost right now until
Trump changes the rules is $800,000
which is about 78
CR so what is the solution for them so
as I said I can help you get a
collateral free loan of up to $400,000
from us itself so basically what happens
is a developer is constructing let's say
a project worth $300 million out of
which we bring 100 people together each
put 800 800,000 in a pot now this is $80
million so we go to the developer and
say Hey you are constructing something
over 300 million here is $80 million
loan okay against the property
collateral so now we have the collateral
from the developer hence peace of mind
so it's sort of like investing into real
estate yes you are but you don't get
real estate to own the developer what
he's doing is he'll give you interest of
0.25% now if a developer uses bank money
he can get from 5% at 5% from the bank
huh but to save that cost he's giving
you
25% and that's his profit for 5 years
and then then he returns the money after
that and then he returns the money AA
that's the deal and then it's a bullet
payment or how does it happen no one
stroke no after 5 years one shot I get
the money back you get the money back he
doesn't give like in monthly payment no
no in one stroke so basically I have to
wait for 5 years and then I get the
money back correct and all contracts are
in place everything is back and isn't
there any no risk in this there is risk
is so Evy law says that the money has to
be at risk okay whe has be That's the
Law so if anybody gives you writing that
you will get this money back guaranteed
you will not get the green card you'll
get the money so what we do as a
consultant my job is to make sure that
the projects are right you know the if
the developer has said I have started
construction I go so when I say I go to
us two three times a year actually go
and check so even if it is a trump
project or a kusher project I will
demand them that I would like to see
your construction and they show very
Happ so you're telling me that for
$800,000 I can get that eb5 program and
get a US green card and I don't even
have to have that $800,000 UPF front so
if I have $400,000 with me the remaining
$400,000 can come from a lending company
which will give me at 4 and a half 5%
interest rate and then this $800 entire
$800,000 kind of goes to a project let's
say it's a real estate developer and 5
years later he returns all the money
back to me which I used to repay the
lender and during that time of 5 years I
don't pay the full Emi I only pay the
interest component of the loan so 5 5%
of $400,000 is just $20,000 a year so
just by spending like $20,000 a year
which is like 16 lakh rupees for 5 years
I can get my us green card yes and how
much uh money should I be having as a
safety Factor like who would you
recommend this someone to like if I have
let's say 10 crores with me would you
recommend this to somebody who has just
10 cres to invest 8 crores to in this
program and like have that money people
with no money have taken full money on
loan and doing it really yeah because
dream is so big Sharon because they they
see that their child will get a green
card and this is the only hope and the
child's future will be much nicer and
better so people with zero money taking
full loan and doing this you've seen
this yes I'm doing such cases wow and
when I'm saying zero money not zero but
they def
have a CR not even a CR wow um if I've
gotten the H1B Visa am I guaranteed to
get a green card eventually or how does
it work like can I go ahead and start
building my life get married have kids
and buy a house there is it okay you can
do all of that the only problem is H1B
to Green Card is a eb2 category
application which takes about 40 to 50
years to clear okay so so many Indians
have applied so this is a wait for
Indians normal people get in a year and
a half or two years uh from other other
countries but Indians and Chinese we are
so large in number now the only thing is
people are very scared that what happens
if the eb5 is scrapped and then 5
million the only thing is there is still
time and if somebody comes to us and
takes a consultation we can guide them
that how in the next 3 to 6 months if
they file for the eb5 they can still get
the green card at $800,000 price point
so tell me this if I never get the green
card is it theoretically possible to
live in the US indefinitely by just
renewing my H1B Visa yes and no so
technically if you have a i140 approval
that means you have applied for eb2
category green card it will take 50
years but in 2 2 and a half years you
get the i140 approval after that the law
of 6 years of H1B so the original Law is
you can maximum stay in the US for 6
years then you have to leave after one
year come back on a fresh H1B that's the
normal law but you have the if you have
the 14 i140 approval then you can renew
H1B indefinitely and live in the US for
for 10 20 30 40 years but if you get
laid off then within 2 months you have
to find a job that to a job which will
sponsor your H1B otherwise you have to
leave so the the the company has a lot
of power they have the gun to your head
absolutely right absolutely so the so
nobody can guarantee yes so that's the
reason people want to get the green card
because once you get the green card
whether you get laid off you're sitting
at home chilling doing nothing
everything is allowed got it so what
what about U my my kids let's say I have
a H1B Visa in the US and obviously I get
married I have kids do the kids
automatically become a US citizen or
right now I think Trump is sort of
playing around with those rules as well
he's trying to but today the child will
be a US citizen and frankly it will be
very difficult for Trump to change that
because it's a constitutional right
correct see passing a law and scrapping
is a different thing changing the
Constitution is a whole different ball
game so it will be very very difficult
almost impossible for him to make that
change so I can have kids in the US if
even if I don't have a green card and
then once they turn 21 they can sponsor
you oh really what is that tell me if
they are so any child who is a citizen
or anybody who's a US citizen and after
age of 21 they can sponsor the parents
what does that mean sponsor sponsor
means get them a green card and that'll
be easy faster yeah but what faster 21
years 21 years have to wait but still
you're saying the other green card is 40
years waiting through myself so the
better way have quits quickly
21 years they'll become and then they
can sponsor me you have a brilliant plan
you don't need me for any kind of
consultation guys I'm all about hacks
got it so okay so let's say now I'm um
I've I've come to the US I've uh I'm
studying here what are those things that
I can do as a student uh studying in the
US College which can increase my
likelihood of getting Visa like what are
the things that I can do as a student
okay frankly the H1B is a lottery now
there is an additional quota for masters
in PhD additional 20,000 so 65,000 is
the lottery amount or the quota for
everybody and additional 20,000 so total
85,000 h-1bs they give so Masters and
phds can reapply or can automatically
get repick in the 20,000 quota but again
most of the people who go from India
they are going for Masters very few I
mean now there are still good numbers
going for Bachelors M but the higher
number of let's say 800,000 people when
I'm saying they applied for the H1B
Lottery out of out of it 600,000 easily
will be Masters and above okay so
frankly as a student there is no hack
that you can do that your name will get
picked in the lottery yes you need to
have a good profile everything so that
you will get a good job and the company
will file for your H1B it's easier to
get a job using networking compared to
people come to me saying I've sent 500
rums but no reply
it's just one of those thousands of
resumes that companies receive right but
networking is a fabulous tool and you
can definitely use it give me some
networking hacks that a student
listening to this can use so there are
so many uh corporate events happening
where Outsiders are allowed we used to
go and participate thankfully our
University they would actually send out
an email to us saying this event is
happening that event and that's local
event you don't need to take a flight
and go every city has some event or the
other it could be cultural event it need
not be a company event right it's about
just making some connection yes because
you never know which next Company CEO
CFO you might just meet casually now
tell me today what is the trend that
you're seeing are there a lot of Indian
students going to the US for the
four-year bachelor degree and what are
those fields that they're going after
and what are those colleges that you
know that they're going for so the trend
has absolutely changed I am myself
shocked too many people for are going to
the US for undergrad any numbers that
you can sh no it's very difficult to
come up with numbers okay but I know
that lot of people with money now
suddenly are sending their kids to the
US how much how much money do you need
to sort of send your kid for an
undergrad degree so typically $ 50,000
to $100,000 per anom depending on
University if it's a State University
it's little less if it's a private
university it's more uh plus of course
the living expense and you know all
other expenses so about $300 to
$400,000 easily for easily easily okay
right so it's not cheap it's not cheap
okay right now anybody who's going to us
to study they would want to stay there
permanently
now if somebody goes on Master on a
master's degree program then typically
their age is 21 or above so Sur these
kids who are studying undergrad in the
US there is a very interesting advantage
that they have they are at the age of 18
or 19 okay and the eb5 Green Card law
says that if a family uh applies that
means husband wife and kids under 21
applies for the Green Card everybody
gets it so that's a very big Advantage
no wait so what I understand is if if I
have a 15 16y old kid right and I want
to send this kid to the US for his
undergrad correct right and let's say
they're studying either computer science
engineering for 4 years or whatever that
degree may be now parall me and my wife
will apply for a eb5 Visa correct and in
a couple of years both of us get green
card and automatically my kid also gets
green card because they're under 21 yes
interesting so we've heard a lot about
the rootes and strategies that people
follow but what are some of the mistakes
or pitfalls that people usually do due
to which they get blacklisted Visa gets
rejected and they get kicked out of the
country so what are these things that
Indians are doing in the US which
they're not supposed to do so Indians
have been doing this a lot for many
years but now president Trump has taken
it very seriously so a lot of people
have come to me saying my kid you know
or some I I heard it in the news that uh
he was doing uh studies on student visa
and he was thrown out now just because
you are studying doesn't mean that
everything is right there are a lot of
children who then work outside the
campus illegally which they should not
be doing they accept cash and they think
that they'll never get caught got it
very interesting so all said and done
Dees what you're saying is that if you
can sort of get the Visas and if you're
very very lucky us is still the
destination for the best chance of
upward mobility of wealth compared to
the rest of the world absolutely and you
are the expert who helps with the Visas
so any last piece of advice to our
audience who wants to move to the US or
uh yeah yeah basically who wants to move
to the US any last piece of advice so
the only advice I want to give to people
who are considering eb5 especially
people who are on either student visas
or H1B in the US is don't wait forever
next 3 months you better plan and the
best thing is to start so let's say you
don't have the money right away you can
figure it out you know in next 3 4
months I'll get the money but you don't
have the money I will recommend that you
get a consultation with a US immigration
attorney and start the process start the
paperwork cool Dees I think this was
very very informative I think a lot of
our audien's minds and eyes have opened
about the possibilities that is there uh
obviously the time is running out in
terms of going for your us dream whether
uh uh you believe in the US dream or not
guys there is definitely a land of
opportunities over there in terms of
higher pay I've seen it I know my
friends who are living and working there
making insane amounts of money so I hope
this was an informative session for you
uh about learning about the nitty-gritty
details about what exactly does it take
to go to the US on that note guys I'll
see you in the next one
[Music]